[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> It's about actually
breaking up the stuck energies
because when those
energies are stuck,
it's hard to access
higher information.
>> I was interested in how
we become deeper, wiser,
more loving, compassionate,
noble human beings.
>> It's about us waking up and
literally remembering who we
really are and the
deeper nature of reality.
>> This reality is an illusion.
You want a different reality?
Yeah, change your mind.
>> Most people are
sitting there sleeping.
And if you try to
wake people up,
they get really
irritated with you.
But some are just
starting to wake up,
and if you say, good
morning, they'll smile.
[THEME MUSIC]
>> I began to study as
a teenager, voraciously,
Madame Blavatsky,
Eastern traditions.
I got into Ramakrishna,
Vivekananda.
I wasn't interested
in superficial fluff.
I was interested in what
are the real traditions who
have been around a
long time all have
to say about who we
really are and what's
possible for humanity.
A lot of what they
were talking about,
meditation, learning to truly
go within and meet the obstacles
that we find, and
dissolve the obstacles
to the awareness of love's
presence made a lot of sense
to me.
>> We are very accustomed to
pretty much living in our left
brain.
And of course, the left
brain is the part of our mind
where you analyze, you
define, have language
to describe things, you
make things meaningful,
you categorize, and then
those things actually--
after you've defined
them, they often
turn into rules and
belief systems, which
get kind of calcified.
So then we identify with
that kind of thinking.
We need proof.
We need it to be logical.
You have to clear the
things we didn't know were
in there that were blocking us.
And now there's more
space for you, the soul,
to come through and run
you the personality.
So we're in this huge process
of clearing our clutter--
all of our fixations, and
beliefs, and fears, and habits,
and addictions,
and all that stuff.
>> Scientists say that a single
cell in the human body is
equivalent in complexity to a
full-size aircraft carrier with
thousands of people working
on board, with jets,
with their engines spooled up
on the ramp ready to take off.
That's how complex
a single cell is.
We have somewhere between
37 and 137 trillion
of those in our bodies.
And our subconscious
mind, I believe,
knows everything going on
with every single cell,
the subconscious mind,
not the conscious mind.
The conscious mind
knows very little.
We can't remember, sometimes,
where we parked our car,
or we forget our anniversary,
or we forget what
we had for breakfast yesterday.
We don't remember
much consciously,
but the subconscious mind
remembers everything,
everything we've ever
eaten, every face we've ever
seen in a crowd, every
sickness we've ever had,
every intense emotional
experience that we had.
It knows what our
emotional baggage is.
It knows everything about us.
>> The mind is like the
steering wheel of a car.
It sets intent and direction.
But the car goes
nowhere without gas.
And so what's the best gas?
We've found unconditional love.
It's really a
loving relationship
between your ego, and
personality, and you here,
and all kinds of larger forces
that are also part of us,
and the oneness of
our consciousness.
>> My sense is that literally
we are waking up, not everyone,
for sure, but there are
enough people waking up,
and then growing up
with this remembering,
and cleaning up to help sort out
our inner traumas and patterns
that no longer serve us.
Then we can show up in service
to something that's greater
than we are, and
then we can link up,
and then we can lift up.
>> The subconscious mind of
every individual knows what is
really wrong with them.
All of my patients, no
matter how young or old
they were, no matter what
they were suffering from,
whether they were dealing
with depression, or anxiety,
or phobias, or panic attacks,
or PTSD, or eating disorders,
or whether they were
dealing with infertility,
or digestive
problems, or asthma,
or whether they were dealing
with some kind of pain
or discomfort like
migraine headaches, or neck
pain, or knee pain, or
back pain, whatever it was,
they all had something
in common because I
was asking their
subconscious minds, you see,
what's really going on here.
And what I found was
the subconscious minds
of all these people
answering back.
They were all dealing
with emotional baggage.
An emotional baggage
was the single biggest
underlying common denominator
for all of these people.
>> I realized I had
a lot to deal with.
We all do-- difficult things
to unpack, traumas, wounds,
bad habits, limitations.
So I went to work on
myself, and I just
followed the thread of what
I came across that seemed
to address that in some way.
>> An emotional baggage is
the single biggest underlying
common denominator
for all of us.
It's there in every disease
process we suffer from.
It's there as an
underlying cause, sometimes
the only underlying cause.
Sometimes it is the underlying
cause all by itself.
By tapping into the
subconscious mind
and asking their own
internal computer
system what they
really needed, I
was able to get those answers.
And the vast majority
of those people,
with just a couple
of exceptions,
were able to get
well even from things
that were supposedly incurable.
>> What people really need to
hear is cancer is a symptom,
not a problem.
The way we've created medicine
and pharmaceutical companies
is if you have a symptom,
we try to stop it.
I go, yeah, but the
symptom isn't the problem.
So you can put any kind of
drug that kill your cancer
cells-- chemotherapy,
radiation--
and say, oh, I killed
the stupid cells.
And I go, they were a
symptom of something higher.
And that's why the
outcome of cancer
is based on the consciousness
of the individual.
>> To understand what
emotional baggage is,
you have to understand that
these bodies of ours are more
of an energy field
than anything else.
I mean, these bodies
of ours seem so solid,
and they're very 3D, and
we have weight and so on.
We have a hard time
wrapping our minds
around what quantum physicists
have been telling us
for so many years, that our
bodies are made of energy.
Well, when you're experiencing
an intense emotion, what's
really going on a quantum
level in your body
is that you're experiencing a
certain vibrational frequency.
Every emotion has
its own vibration.
So for example, anger
is a different frequency
than sadness, and that's
different from feeling loss,
and they're all different.
Now, when you're feeling an
emotion that's powerful enough,
sometimes it can
be too powerful.
Some of that energy becomes
trapped in the body.
So that when that event is
over, when the bully moves away,
or the divorce is
finalized, or you
quit that terrible, abusive
job and you get a better one,
yet you're carrying
baggage with you.
>> It's all about consistent,
stable vibrations versus
chaotic.
Often the first step
is to actually find
where you're stuck.
It could be a pain in the
body, tension in the shoulder.
It could be an emotion.
Ultimately, it's all about flow.
At the frequency level,
it's about coherence.
At the chime or
music level, it's
about flow, flow
with no blockages.
>> So it's easy to tell
when your energy is blocked
because you're
going to feel bad.
You're just going to feel
bad, you're going to feel off.
And whenever you feel off, you
know there's something amiss.
It could be something internal.
It could be negative
thoughts and feelings
that you're having,
emotions taking over.
It could be a physical problem.
You might have an
illness, or you
might be developing an illness.
So these are some of the ways
in which you can be blocked,
but it's easy to clear
your energy field.
It's even easy to
clear your energy field
in a way that's going to make
you feel physically better.
I'm not saying that
it's a cure or anything,
but you can feel a lot better
if you use some healing prayers
or healing affirmations.
>> People need to know their
thoughts are not just things
that fly off.
Their thoughts are translated
into chemistry by the brain.
And the chemistry is
released into the blood,
and the blood is
the environment that
shapes behavior and genetics.
According to quantum physics,
the most valid science
on the planet, consciousness
is what is creating our life
experiences.
So I said, well, what if
I have a consciousness
of Heaven on Earth?
I go, well, then you
manifest heaven on earth.
>> If your mind is
dwelling on negativity,
it's a good idea to do what I
call the thought form healing
prayer.
That's really simple.
All that you do
is to get in touch
with the negative feelings that
you're having, and say what
they are, and then say the
opposites of what they are.
For example, I now release all
sadness and pain from my mind
now, and it is gone.
I am filled with
thoughts of happiness,
and joy, and freedom from pain.
Thank you, God.
And so it is.
You can do it that simply.
And immediately, you're
going to feel lifted.
You're going to feel positive.
You're going to get
out of that funk,
and you'll be in
a positive state.
You could use the word "God."
You can use the word "spirit."
>> Well, what is spirituality?
OK, definition.
Field-- invisible
moving forces that
influence the physical world.
What's the definition of spirit?
Invisible moving forces that
influence the physical world.
I go, [GASPS] oh my god,
quantum physics and spirituality
have the same conclusion.
>> I'm in touch with
Spirit with a capital S.
That means the Holy Spirit, the
Divine Spirit, the God Spirit,
whatever you like to call it.
>> I've been on
many radio shows,
and people call in and say, Doc,
everything in my life has been
crap, from birth to now.
And I go, hmm, I'm very
compassionate about that.
But then I go, congratulations,
most people's lives
are random, some good, some bad.
You are affecting your reality.
All you need to do
is lower your fear.
And then positive
realities could be created,
instead of all these negatives.
That person is
being very powerful,
but they're creating fear-based
thing after fear-based thing
and getting confirmation.
My personal belief is we're
in a free-choice universe.
Nobody's doing it to us.
Karma is not doing it to us.
I'll give you an example.
I'll say-- I'm going
to make this one up.
I'm a 15-year-old boy.
And I look at you in class,
and I begin to like you.
And I ask my friends, do
you think she likes me?
And they go telegraph
your friends.
And finally, I get up
the nerve to ask you out.
And so I say, would you like
to go to the movies Saturday?
And you stiffen, and
redden, and say, no.
I'm going to make a
conclusion you didn't like me.
It's a false conclusion.
You like me a lot.
You asked your dad, this nice
boy would like to take me out.
Can I go?
And he said, no, you can't
date for another year.
You're too young.
So what I'm seeing is your
embarrassment, your anger,
whatever.
But I make a conclusion
in my free choice
that you didn't like me.
So I lick my wounds
for a couple of months.
So another person gets my eye.
Now I go up to ask
her, and I have fear.
So I walk up.
There's sweat under
my arms in rings.
My body language is like this.
I have poor timing.
I go up to her when she's
with her cool friends,
and I go, you wouldn't want
to go out with me, would you?
And she laughs and
says, get lost.
Now I have two episodes of
reality confirming itself,
and I develop conclusions.
And that conclusion might be
whoever I like won't like me.
I could live my life that way.
The universe isn't doing
it, but my fear is doing it.
>> A woman came in to see me who
thought she was having a heart
attack.
She was a patient of mine.
I hadn't seen her
for a month or so.
But she came in, and she had
this crushing chest pain.
She had difficulty breathing.
Her left arm was
completely numb.
The left side of
her face was numb.
And that looks like a
heart attack, right?
And I told my staff, we
might need an ambulance,
but let me just really quickly
do some testing on her,
and so I did.
Tapped into her
subconscious mind
and found that there was
emotional baggage that
was causing this symptom.
And so we have a chart
of emotions that we use.
There are about 60
emotions on the chart.
It's divided up into two
columns and six rows.
And so I was very quickly
able to figure out
what the emotion was.
The emotion was grief.
And so I asked her subconscious
mind, when did this occur?
This emotion of grief
had become trapped
in her body three years before.
And when I arrived at that,
she broke down weeping.
And she said, I can't believe
I'm dealing with that still.
She said, I thought
that was all over.
And I said, what in
the world happened?
She said that year, her
husband, she found out,
had been having an affair, so
she confronted him about it.
The marriage blew up, and she
ended up getting divorced,
and she spent a year
in therapy dealing
with it mentally and had even
recently gotten remarried.
As far as she was concerned,
that ex was just her ex.
But at the time it
happened, it was shattering.
She was so deeply in
love with this guy
and expected to be with him
for her whole life, forever.
And that's what happened.
So that emotion of
grief, that she felt
was so powerful, that
became trapped in her body.
And when I released that, the
feeling came back into her arm
and into her face within
about three seconds.
And the chest pain was gone.
The difficulty breathing,
it was all gone.
And she left the office
about 10 minutes later
after joking with my staff
and was totally fine.
And I remember after she
left, sitting bone at my desk,
and my head was
kind of spinning.
I was thinking, what in the
world did I just witness?
How is it possible that an
emotional energy like that
can create these symptoms?
That was almost 30 years ago.
I believe that she
would not have survived.
She's still alive.
We're still in touch.
She has a horse ranch in Oregon.
But I think that
she would have died,
and she would have been somebody
who literally would have died
of a broken heart,
very likely, and no one
would have realized
that what really killed
her was her husband's affair.
>> Unwell being, disease,
whatever we want to call it,
distraction even, anxiety
and depression isn't about
the disease coming
from somewhere.
It's much more about who
I am as a potential host
for that disease.
So for instance, if my
immune system is deficient,
then I become a more of
a host for the potential
for a disease.
So then how can I maximize my
immune system is the biggest
question that people should be
interested in getting answered.
>> This is a reset that
can happen at any moment.
And it brings us back to the
primordial condition, brings us
back to our natural state,
which is ease, peace, love,
purity, pure awareness.
So this is really what I'm
teaching people, is just how
to relax into themself, into
this moment, into what is,
and to really
explore what's here.
When you look at the
world and what's going on,
you see that, really,
the trouble in the world
is that there's too
many egos running amok,
doing what egos
do when they don't
know the deeper truth of what
we are and what really matters.
Being greedy, grabby,
pushy, self-centered,
acting as if what they
think, and say, and do
doesn't affect the whole, and
of course, we know that it does.
And right now, our
world is ego on crack.
It's very painful to see
that those in leadership,
the best that they can
do is be more of a bully,
be more aggressive,
be more about me
and my people, me
and my family, and--
excuse my French--
[BLEEP] everybody else.
That is deep suffering from a
spiritual perspective, whatever
your politics are.
The more we wake up
spiritually, the more
we realize that you are
not separate from me
quite literally.
What's good for me must
mean what's good for us all,
and that compassion,
and empathy,
and helping one
another where we can,
not only makes good
sense for our survival
but is required for
any peace or happiness.
>> Now, in the Western world,
the first rule in medicine is,
first, do no harm.
And you want that.
You want your doctor to
promise not to do harm.
But on the other hand, you
have to ask the question, like,
well, what harm are you
promising not to do?
The first rule in Chinese
medicine is honor the spirit.
So it's not about going to
the doctor about your body
as much as it's about
going to the doctor
to come to know yourself
more deeply as a whole being.
So the doctor promises, first,
I will honor the spirit.
So instead of starting with
the body and working up,
the ideal, in
Chinese medicine, is
to start with the
top, the spirit,
and work down because the
spirit, theoretically,
influences the heart
and mind, which
has to do with perception, and
perspective, and assumption,
and personal ideals.
The heart and mind makes
the decision of what to eat.
the decision what to drink
and how much to drink.
The heart and mind
makes the decision
about whether to rest our self.
Of course, what
happens in our society
is we work from the
body up, and our idea
is that we're worthless
unless we're doing something.
And so we wear this one
out, but we had to decide.
Now, most people would say,
well, I didn't decide that.
But I would say, the decider
is under the influence
of social assumptions,
which are not contributing
to your well-being.
>> A good analogy for ego
structure is like a hard block
of ice.
Its fundamental
substance is still water.
The fundamental
substance hasn't changed.
However, it's frozen,
and dense, and opaque.
So that's how human
beings can get
when we get separated
from what we really are,
which happens to everybody
in the process of developing
a personality.
Our consciousness becomes
dense, hard, opaque
to its divine nature.
We don't feel I am the love.
Peace is here.
We don't feel the joy.
Joy feels like we have to get
it by some external means.
All of the great
spiritual traditions
agree that we have to find
a way of breaking down
that hard block of ice.
>> The way intuition tends
to get clouded the most is
if we're in our left-brain
head and analytical mind,
and particularly
if we go into fear.
They'd even do
studies where they'd
send energy toward
placental DNA, pristine DNA.
The DNA uncoils, and there's
more information transfer
when the people
sending energies are
in a positive
motivational place.
If they send fear-based
emotions-- when I use fear,
I use it broadly,
anything that clouds love.
That could be anger, cynicism,
bitterness, confusion,
all of those things.
You send that to the
DNA, the DNA tightens up,
less information transfer.
>> I noticed that when I
am being unpleasant with
my daughter, doing things that
are creating strife between us,
it's always, inevitably, there's
something going on in me,
in my life, personally,
and probably with my work,
that I'm scared about.
Or I mean, I could say
that I'm angry about,
but really, I'm
angry because I'm
scared that something's
going to happen,
and somebody has
taken advantage of me.
And it's a whole mix of
stuff, but it comes down
to having some kind of fear.
>> Sometimes, it just feels like
somebody threw a wet blanket
on top of you.
So you get heavy, dense, solid.
It feels like you can't move.
And that is a fear
response, basically.
And it's telling
you, in a subtle way,
this is not right
for me right now.
So when you start to notice
those subtle signals,
you can stop and then say, why?
Let me look at that a minute.
>> The more that I can take
some time out to sit, OK,
what is it that happened today
that's making me feel this way?
Because I am feeling it even
if I'm not letting it in.
It's there.
So the best thing to do
is to set aside some time
and actually experience it.
>> Usually, if you hear a
lie or if something comes up
that's either dangerous,
or inappropriate for you,
or doesn't fit with you right,
you will get a contraction,
and typically, it's
in solar plexus.
Sometimes, people find
it in their throat,
or they feel like
they're having a heart
attack, or headache, or
whatever, all through the body.
>> Even a few seconds of
really actually just letting it
happen, for me, usually brings
some insight, like, oh, yeah,
I feel tense because this person
at work said something to me,
and it just comes back to me.
And I have some insight,
like, oh, yeah, of course,
I feel that way.
But now, I'm able to connect
it to something that happened.
And I can realize I'm
scared that something
is going to happen at work
that I'm nervous about,
but it has nothing to do with
this person I'm with right now.
So I can let the feeling go
and get back into the flow,
with the present moment.
If I'm triggered by something,
I've got some process going on.
And it's a synchronistic
moment that's
helping me get
clear on something
that I'm dealing with.
More I can take it that
way and see the world
as helping me resolve
my own challenges,
the more I can find a sense
of peace and equanimity,
and get back into being
excited about life.
>> Physical life, to me,
is a kind of experiment
because in the spiritual
realm, it's all merged.
You don't know the difference
between you and anything else.
You share knowledge.
And you can have all
kinds of identities,
but they're all there
at the same time.
So what would it be like to
have one identity for 80 years
or whatever we have?
I'd like to see what it's
like to drop my frequency down
so much that I fragment into
objects and empty space.
I'd like to try that out where
everything seems separate.
So that's an experiment.
It's for the soul to understand
what individuality is.
So we involve and evolve.
You come down in frequency
into physical reality
where things fragment into
time, space, and matter.
And then we start to evolve
again, and clear away the fear,
and open up our energy, and
run at a higher frequency,
and we start to go back up the
spiral to where we came from,
our home.
>> A lot of why we can't turn
more substantially within
and deepen is because of
some instinctual reflex that
can't trust that
it's safe enough.
And so we have to address
our issues to do with trust.
We have to address the reasons
why we are controlling.
We have to address what
limits your capacity to trust?
And who does that
mistrust belong to?
Is it yours?
Is it your ancestors?
Is it got to do
with something that
happened in your culture
that made you feel afraid?
It's trauma in the
collective field.
So when we really look
at why we can't trust,
why we can't let go
of fear, why we can't
let go of strategy
and habit of control,
inevitably, there's
material there
that needs to be met by
that loving kindness.
>> I made a choice to be led
by Spirit in everyday life.
It's a very interesting
way to live.
I ask Spirit with a capital
S, the Divine Spirit,
what's wisdom for me
in any given situation.
If I have to make a decision
about which car to buy
or which person to hire,
anything that is of import,
I ask Spirit, and
I receive guidance.
And often the
guidance is not just
yes or no, I'll be
given wisdom from Spirit
by which I live my life.
Once I made that decision and
I started to live like that,
my life became an
amazing adventure.
>> This is a very empowering
understanding, but it calls us,
it invites us to step into
that empowerment and to accept
our responsibility joyously as
co-creators of our realities,
and therefore, responsibility
for how we are in the world
and with the world.
>> One of the best ways to move
out of fear and into a more
heart space, or intuition
is more easily accessed,
is by generating
feelings of love.
I'm going to give you
an example or two.
First one is of a hunch.
The first time I heard
the word Starbucks many,
many years ago, I got
a big glowing feeling
in my heart area.
So I called my broker.
They had never heard
of the company.
This is very early.
They looked it up,
said, oh, Joe, they're
going to be doing coffee shops.
Don't invest in that.
So I didn't.
Now, I always at least
write it down and track it.
If I can afford it,
I buy one share.
If I can afford more,
1,000 shares, whatever.
Because to me, my fantasy is I
have a little guide up there.
And if I never listen
to them and acted on it,
in about two weeks,
they'd be bored,
saying all this good
information it's never acted on.
So that's a spontaneous
thing, a hunch.
That's more likely to come
to you-- synchronicity,
serendipity, hunches--
if you are in a
loving, relaxed, open,
feeling abundant, feeling
generous kind of place
than if you are thinking of
all the problems in the world
and are overloaded with a
lot of left-brain thinking.
Now, if we move from
hunch to something
that's really, really important
that you want to know,
should I date this person,
should I take this job,
and you already have your ego
chattering about the answer--
the last boy really hurt my
heart, last girl really hurt
my heart--
how do you move into knowing
intuitively what to do
versus just going to paranoia
about being rejected?
>> It's waking up, it's growing
up because we're now coming
to a point where the evidence
is causing signs to, literally,
turn upside down and to come
to stand alongside universal
wisdom and spiritual teachings.
It's converging
with them to reveal
a cosmology of wholeness, a
cosmology of consciousness,
a science of love because
if love is about anything,
it's about remembering
the interconnectedness,
and community, and
wholeness of all that is,
so this literally is
a science of love.
>> When authentic surrender,
authentic ego relaxation
happens.
It feels like "you"
aren't doing anything.
That's really the point.
It's a "relaxing"
of the you that
thinks it's doing everything
and running the show that's
really actually quite diluted.
So it's a natural yielding.
It's like a ah, which is why
I use the term ego relaxation.
There's just a
ceasing and desisting
of the pushing and
the trying and the
have to and should and--
it's just a melting.
>> Hopelessness comes when you
think you have to be in control
to be happy.
If you can say this
exactly what's happening
right now is what
is, if you can--
I'm not saying you can because
you don't have control over it,
but if you can get to the
place where sometimes you
can do that, you'll
notice it feels better.
>> If you're filled with
life, and vitality, and joy,
you're not in fear.
What do you say to
yourself all day?
I am beautiful.
I am loving.
I have good friends.
I'm grateful.
Or do you say, god, you're ugly?
You're fat.
You're stupid,
whatever it might be,
or the world is out to get me.
>> When we bring loving
awareness to those forces that
make us less than beautiful,
there's a natural letting go.
There's a yielding that happens.
And we return to the
natural fluidity and freedom
that is our nature.
>> One antidote is gratitude.
So some people now go
to sleep or wake up
thinking of all the
books they've read
and how grateful they
are to those authors,
and the next day, all
the pets they've had
and how beautiful they
were, and then all
the flowers in their garden,
all the waterfalls they visited.
So as you move into gratitude,
you move out of fear,
so gratitude,
appreciation, praise.
And it's not being Pollyanna.
It's practical
neurophysiologic survival
because you want a good
immune system right now.
And the immune system thrives
when we're happy, loving, open.
>> I'm renowned by my students
for saying, all else fails,
wiggle your toes.
Just sense your feet,
rock your pelvis a little.
And so if you do
that, what happens
is you're switching on more
awareness in the lower body,
switching orientation out
of the whirring of the mind
into direct somatic experience,
into the felt sense of,
well, there is true ground.
Yes, I might be
feeling this feeling.
It might not be my
favorite feeling.
Yes, my husband
might be behaving
like a pain in the ass.
Yes, I might want to
throttle my teenage children.
However, like here
we are, life goes on.
So it helps us to have
that-- to get the perspective
and just to be here in a
very direct way that gives us
more capacity to take a
breath, and come to our heart,
and just be wiser and more
patient with what's going on.
>> If we could melt
fear with love,
we could make this planet
a paradise, in my opinion.
[MUSIC PLAYING]